# MancalaGame
Goal: To make the classic marble game Mancala in Python.
Note: After this project was finished, I realized that I had learned the rules incorrectly, so this Python game is not accurate to the official rules.

Preface: The game Mancala (as I knew it when working on this project) consists of a board with 6x2 slots and two 2-wide slots (one on either side); these are the goal slots. The objective of the game is to have the most marbles in your goal slot by the end of the game. The game begins with every small slot being filled with 4 marbles each. The players are each assigned one of the two goal posts. The first player chooses a small slot that contains marbles. They pick up every marble in that slot and place one marble from their hand into each slot after their chosen slot, moving clockwise around the board (skipping the opponents goal slot, but including their own goal slot). If the last marble from their hand lands in a slot with greater than 0 marbles, they pick up all marbles in that slot, and begin placing again from there. This repeats until their final marble lands in an empty small slot, at which point their turn ends. If their final marble lands in their goal slot, they get another turn. The game ends when every marble is in one of the two goal slots, and the winner is whoever has the most marbles in their goal slot.

Process:
I began this project by building the draw_board function, which outputs the board. I started with this function because it was the simplest part of the game; the display. After that, I built the move functions, which I segmented into smaller steps to keep track of everything. I decided to have the move functions output the board every time a marble is moved, that way the players can see what is happening, rather than skipping straight to the end of their move. Finally, I built the main body, which combines the segmented functions into one game. Overall, this was one of my simpler projects, taking only a few hours to complete.
